collections/_projects/isd-board-report.md, before:

---
layout: project-left
title: "Online Learninig Enrollment Dashboard"
description: "An Tableau dashboard exploring enrollment trends in online and ALE courses across a K-12 district."
date: 2025-3-14
weight: 2
thumbnail: "/assets/images/isd-board-report/pg1_br.jpg"
client: "Issaquah School District Online Learning Department"
categories: ["Tableau", "Data Visualization", "Education"]
role: "Data Analyst & Visualization Designer"
gallery:
  - image: "/assets/images/isd-board-report/pg1_br.jpg"
  - image: "/assets/images/isd-board-report/pg2_br.jpg"
  - image: "/assets/images/isd-board-report/pg3_br.jpg"
---

### Project Overview

This project was created in collaboration with the Issaquah School District’s Online Learning Department to inform administrators, board members, and policy stakeholders. It provides a visual, interactive summary of enrollment data spanning **Fall 2018 to Spring 2024**, using internal data and board presentation materials.

The dashboard features:
- **Trend analysis** of total enrollments over time by semester
- **Completion and credit rates**
- **Breakdowns by course type**, grade level, subject, and school
- **Reasons for enrollment**, both overall and segmented by race/ethnicity
- **Performance metrics** based on grades and credit earning

---

### My Role

- Designed the dashboard layout and visual flow in Tableau Story format  
- Connected and filtered sensitive student enrollment data using Tableau Prep  
- Created custom visualizations (bar charts, line graphs, table highlights)  
- Aligned data storytelling with board report goals and accessibility needs


---

### Key Findings

- Most enrollments were driven by **learning style preferences** or **course acceleration**  
- **High school students** made up the largest share of enrollments, particularly in Online Health  
- Students from diverse racial/ethnic backgrounds showed varying reasons for enrollment, with equity and access as core considerations  
- Courses with “Completed” status and passing grades were used as a proxy to identify credit-earning success

---

### 📊 Explore the Dashboard

🔗 [Launch Full Dashboard](https://public.tableau.com/views/2023-24ISDSummaryReport/Story2)

---

Commit message:

adding note to isd db page

collections/_projects/isd-board-report.md, after:

---
layout: project-left
title: "Online Learninig Enrollment Dashboard"
description: "An Tableau dashboard exploring enrollment trends in online and ALE courses across a K-12 district."
date: 2025-3-14
weight: 2
thumbnail: "/assets/images/isd-board-report/pg1_br.jpg"
client: "Issaquah School District Online Learning Department"
categories: ["Tableau", "Data Visualization", "Education"]
role: "Data Analyst & Visualization Designer"
gallery:
  - image: "/assets/images/isd-board-report/pg1_br.jpg"
  - image: "/assets/images/isd-board-report/pg2_br.jpg"
  - image: "/assets/images/isd-board-report/pg3_br.jpg"
---

### Project Overview

This project was created in collaboration with the Issaquah School District’s Online Learning Department to inform administrators, board members, and policy stakeholders. It provides a visual, interactive summary of enrollment data spanning **Fall 2018 to Spring 2024**, using internal data and board presentation materials.

The dashboard features:
- **Trend analysis** of total enrollments over time by semester
- **Completion and credit rates**
- **Breakdowns by course type**, grade level, subject, and school
- **Reasons for enrollment**, both overall and segmented by race/ethnicity
- **Performance metrics** based on grades and credit earning

---

### My Role

- Designed the dashboard layout and visual flow in Tableau Story format  
- Connected and filtered sensitive student enrollment data using Tableau Prep  
- Created custom visualizations (bar charts, line graphs, table highlights)  
- Aligned data storytelling with board report goals and accessibility needs


---

### Key Findings

- Most enrollments were driven by **learning style preferences** or **course acceleration**  
- **High school students** made up the largest share of enrollments, particularly in Online Health  
- Students from diverse racial/ethnic backgrounds showed varying reasons for enrollment, with equity and access as core considerations  
- Courses with “Completed” status and passing grades were used as a proxy to identify credit-earning success

---

### 📊 Explore the Dashboard

🔗 [Launch Full Dashboard](https://public.tableau.com/views/2023-24ISDSummaryReport/Story2)

> This dashboard was designed for print, so it is formatted in letter page portrait format. 

---
