collections/_projects/project-1.md, before:

---
layout: project # alternative layouts: project, project-left, project-right, project-top
title: "Beauty Inventory SQL Database & APIs"
description: "Inventory and supplier management system for a beauty & personal care company"
date: 2024-12-15
weight: 1
thumbnail: "/assets/images/gen/projects/project-2-1-thumbnail.webp"
image: "/assets/images/gen/projects/project-2-1.webp"
categories: ["Backend", "APIs", "SQL"]
client: "Academic Capstone Project"
role: "Database Designer & Java Developer"
gallery:
  - image: "assets/images/beauty_inventory/beauty_inv_schema.png"
  - image: "/assets/images/gen/projects/project-2-2.webp"
  - image: "/assets/images/gen/projects/project-2-5.webp"
  - image: "/assets/images/gen/projects/project-2-4.webp"
  - image: "/assets/images/gen/projects/project-2-3.webp"
  - image: "/assets/images/gen/projects/project-2-6.webp"
---

A full walkthrough of this project is available in the presentation below:

{% raw %}
<iframe 
  src="https://www.canva.com/design/DAGiCmDbReg/AI_ztgZWLJ7URiEOCttewA/view" 
  width="800" 
  height="450" 
  frameborder="0" 
  allowfullscreen>
</iframe>
{% endraw %}

Commit message:

adding more info to beauty inventory project

collections/_projects/project-1.md, after:

---
layout: project # alternative layouts: project, project-left, project-right, project-top
title: "Beauty Inventory SQL Database & APIs"
description: "Inventory and supplier management system for a beauty & personal care company"
date: 2024-12-15
weight: 1
thumbnail: "assets/images/beauty_inventory/beaty_inventory_thumbnail.png"
image: "/assets/images/gen/projects/project-2-1.webp"
categories: ["Backend", "APIs", "SQL"]
client: "Academic Capstone Project"
role: "Database Designer & Java Developer"
gallery:
  - image: "assets/images/beauty_inventory/beauty_inv_schema.png"
---

This project involved designing and implementing a relational database and RESTful API system for a fictional beauty & personal care company. The system allows inventory tracking, supplier relationship management, and automated stock replenishment based on sales. It was built in PostgreSQL and connected to a Java-based GUI for real-time interaction.

---

### Key Features
- Entity-relationship (ER) diagram with 6+ interrelated tables
- Normalized schema for suppliers, products, inventory, and transactions
- Java GUI connected to PostgreSQL via JDBC
- RESTful APIs for CRUD operations on key entities

---

### My Role
- Designed the database schema and ERD
- Wrote SQL scripts for table creation, relationships, and constraints
- Developed RESTful APIs using Java
- Built unit tests and sample queries for validation

---

### Visuals

![Database Schema](/assets/images/beauty_inventory/beauty_inv_schema.png)

---

🔗 [View full project on GitHub](https://github.com/inaya-r/Beauty-Inventory-SQL-Database-APIs)
