pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: basic
title: "About Me"
date: 2025-05-13
permalink: "/about/"
description: "Aspiring data scientist & backend developer bridging technical systems with real-world impact."
image: "/assets/images/gen/content/content-5.webp"
---

# 👋 Hi, I'm Inaya Rizvi

I'm an aspiring data scientist and backend developer passionate about machine learning, civic tech, and building tools that turn complexity into clarity. My work spans predictive modeling, RESTful APIs, and dynamic dashboards — always with the goal of making data accessible, actionable, and meaningful to both technical and non-technical audiences.

Currently, I'm studying **Data Visualization** with minors in **Data Science** and **Computer Science/Software Engineering** at the University of Washington Bothell (Class of 2025). 

I specialize in **translating data-driven insights into decisions**, with an eye for presentation, precision, and impact. But, I'm especially interested in using **ML models to identify patterns, support decisions, and improve access to information** in both public and private sector settings.

---

## My Edge: Business + Technical Fluency

I thrive at the intersection of analysis and communication. I’ve worked on projects where I:

- Presented enrollment trends and predictions to education stakeholders with no coding background
- Translated messy backend logic into clean, readable terminal tables for internal use
- Designed visual comparisons for state policy data to support civic transparency

Whether it's a SQL query, a Shiny dashboard, or a stakeholder-facing presentation, I focus on **how data is used, not just how it’s stored**.

---

## Technical Skills

- **Languages**: Python, R, SQL, Java, C++  
- **Databases**: PostgreSQL, JDBC  
- **Visualization**: R Shiny, Tableau, ggplot2, Streamlit  
- **Tools**: VSCode, GitHub, Postman, ArcGIS Pro
- **Machine Learning**: Ridge/Lasso Regression, Random Forest, K-nearest neighbors 
- **Other**: RESTful API development, Git, data storytelling, civic tech

---

## Selected Projects

- A PostgreSQL + Java backend with smart restock logic for product inventory
- A Shiny dashboard comparing public hearing transparency across U.S. states
- Research using network graphs to model ecological food webs

---

## 🤝 Let’s Connect

If you're into well-structured data systems, meaningful UX for analytics, or cross-functional collaboration, let’s chat!  
📧 [inaya_rizvi@outlook.com](mailto:inaya_rizvi@outlook.com)  
🔗 [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/inaya-rizvi/)

Commit message:

updating about me with github

pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: basic
title: "About Me"
date: 2025-05-13
permalink: "/about/"
description: "Aspiring data scientist & backend developer bridging technical systems with real-world impact."
image: "/assets/images/gen/content/content-5.webp"
---

# 👋 Hi, I'm Inaya Rizvi

I'm an aspiring data scientist and backend developer passionate about machine learning, civic tech, and building tools that turn complexity into clarity. My work spans predictive modeling, RESTful APIs, and dynamic dashboards — always with the goal of making data accessible, actionable, and meaningful to both technical and non-technical audiences.

Currently, I'm studying **Data Visualization** with minors in **Data Science** and **Computer Science/Software Engineering** at the University of Washington Bothell (Class of 2025). 

I specialize in **translating data-driven insights into decisions**, with an eye for presentation, precision, and impact. But, I'm especially interested in using **ML models to identify patterns, support decisions, and improve access to information** in both public and private sector settings.

---

## My Edge: Business + Technical Fluency

I thrive at the intersection of analysis and communication. I’ve worked on projects where I:

- Presented enrollment trends and predictions to education stakeholders with no coding background
- Translated messy backend logic into clean, readable terminal tables for internal use
- Designed visual comparisons for state policy data to support civic transparency

Whether it's a SQL query, a Shiny dashboard, or a stakeholder-facing presentation, I focus on **how data is used, not just how it’s stored**.

---

## Technical Skills

- **Languages**: Python, R, SQL, Java, C++  
- **Databases**: PostgreSQL, JDBC  
- **Visualization**: R Shiny, Tableau, ggplot2, Streamlit  
- **Tools**: VSCode, GitHub, Postman, ArcGIS Pro
- **Machine Learning**: Ridge/Lasso Regression, Random Forest, K-nearest neighbors 
- **Other**: RESTful API development, Git, data storytelling, civic tech

---

## Selected Projects

- A PostgreSQL + Java backend with smart restock logic for product inventory
- A Shiny dashboard comparing public hearing transparency across U.S. states
- Research using network graphs to model ecological food webs

---

## 🤝 Let’s Connect

If you're into well-structured data systems, meaningful UX for analytics, or cross-functional collaboration, let’s chat!

You can also view my [Github] (https://github.com/inaya-r) to view all my projects.  
 
📧 [inaya_rizvi@outlook.com](mailto:inaya_rizvi@outlook.com)  
🔗 [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/inaya-rizvi/)
